The President: This week, our hearts are with
the people of Belgium,
as terrorist attacks claimed
the lives of
more than thirty people.
Yesterday, we learned that
at least two Americans
were killed.
We pray for their
families and loved ones.
At least fourteen
Americans were injured.
And we pray for their full
recovery - along with
everyone else affected
by these attacks.
Earlier this week, I called
the Prime Minister of
Belgium and offered him our
full array of support in
bringing to justice any
terrorists involved in
planning or aiding this
unconscionable attack on
innocent men,
women, and children.
Belgium is a close friend
and ally of the United States.
And when it comes
to our friends,
America has their back.
Especially as we fight
the scourge of terrorism.
More broadly, we're going
to continue to root out and
defeat ISIL.
We've been taking out ISIL
leadership, and this week,
we removed one of their top
leaders from the battlefield
- permanently.
A relentless air campaign -
and support for forces in
Iraq and Syria who are
fighting ISIL on the ground
- has allowed us to take
approximately forty percent
of the populated territory
that ISIL once held in Iraq.
We're supporting Iraqi
Security Forces who are
beginning to put pressure
on the ISIL stronghold of Mosul.
And we will not stop until
ISIL's safe-havens
are destroyed.
We're also working to
disrupt plots against the
United States and against
our friends and allies.
A team of FBI agents is
on the ground in Belgium
supporting the
investigation.
We've ramped up our
intelligence cooperation so
that we can root out
ISIL's operations.
And we constantly review our
homeland security posture to
remain vigilant against any
efforts to target
the United States.
ISIL poses a threat to the
entire civilized world.
That's why we've been
leading a truly global
coalition that will be
vital to our success.
Secretary Kerry is leading
an international effort to
bring the Syrian
civil war to an end,
a critical piece of
restoring stability to that
war-torn part of the world.
And next week, dozens of
world leaders will come here
to Washington for a summit
focused on nuclear security.
We'll use that opportunity
to also review our joint
efforts against ISIL, and to
make sure the world remains
united in this effort
to protect our people.
As we move forward
in this fight,
we have to wield another
weapon alongside our
airstrikes, our military,
our counterterrorism work,
and our diplomacy.
And that's the power
of our example.
Our openness to refugees
fleeing ISIL's violence.
Our determination to win
the battle against ISIL's
hateful and violent
propaganda - a distorted
view of Islam that aims to
radicalize young Muslims to
their cause.
In that effort, our most
important partners
are American Muslims.
That's why we have to reject
any attempt to stigmatize
Muslim-Americans, and their
enormous contributions to
our country and
our way of life.
Such attempts are contrary
to our character,
to our values, and to our
history as a nation built
around the idea of
religious freedom.
It's also counterproductive.
It plays right into the
hands of terrorists who want
to turn us against
one another;
who need a reason to recruit
more people
to their hateful cause.
I am a father.
And just like
any other parent,
the awful images from
Brussels draw my thoughts to
my own children's safety.
That's also why you should
be confident that defeating
ISIL remains our top
military, intelligence,
and national
security priority.
We will succeed.
The terrorists will fail.
They want us to abandon our
values and our way of life.
We will not.
They want us to give in to
their vision of the future.
We will defeat
them with ours.
Because we know that the
future belongs not to those
who seek only to destroy -
but to those who have the
courage to build.
Thanks.